# Milestone 6: Final Report
Team: DebNet

Members:
1. Viet Do - 20160736 - doxuanviet1996@kaist.ac.kr
2. Anh Le - 20170763 - vietanhle@kaist.ac.kr
3. Van Hoang - 20160738 - vanhoang@kaist.ac.kr
4. Dohyeong Kim - 20160076 - lastnone@kaist.ac.kr

## Quality arguments
Whenever we go out with friends or participated in some certain events, it is quite troublesome to ask to divide the total amount of the bill and ask every single participant to pay that amount separately. Therefore, it will be better that one person will pay first and the others with pay him/her later. However, as we participated in many events within a day with a lot of different people, it is very difficult for us to remember all debtors as well as creditors. Furthermore, as time goes on, people might forget to pay back money but people are often shy or they may feel that it is not nice to ask others to pay back directly. Then, people might never get their money back. Therefore, we introduce our application which is called "DebNet" that can solve this problem. First of all, our app help people calculate the exact amount of money that each person has to pay back to the one that pay the whole bill. Users gave us feedback that "The app's calculation is precise and it does a good work of keeping track of the debts". 

Secondly, we note all of the activities that users have participated in which can help them keep track of the money they paid or received is belong to which events, in what time, etc., avoiding confusion. 

The next advantage of our app is that we offer the reminding system which allow user politely remind other users that they are owing you money or notify others that you have completed the payment.
## Evaluation
Because of our lack of database, we are not able to capture any statistic from user testing. Initially we ask 4 of our friends to test our app and gather their feedback, we also advertise our app to friends on social networks and other mean of communication, however, we do not have the number of how many users actually try out the app. However from the initial testing, we have acquired some feedbacks about the application:
 - Some of the UI details are not clean and can be hard to understand to new users (the "Money due" number, scrolling bug, notifications).
 - Some of the logic are confusing: user is automatically added to newly created event, expense in an event is divided equally, etc. Some of them are quite natural as we build it, however it is not when it comes to user.
On the bright side, we also receive some positive insights/comments:
 - All user are able to interact with the app following the scenario that we propose (Create an event, Remind people to pay, view statistic of user). From that, we can see that the app organized pretty well and user can understand the hierarchy naturally.
 - Some users are eager to test out the app when it comes online.
 - The goal that the app is targeting is needed to some users, as they said that the problem that we are tackling is also the one that they suffer from.
## Discussion
Base on our team-based design project, we have realized that our application has supported some aspects of social computing but still lack of completeness in other fields:
 - Incentive for participation: Our app solve the quite common problem of everyone in the daily life, since people usually get confused and lose track of their money when they have to make a lot of transactions for different events. Therefore, we belive that it is the kind of incentive for participations of users.
 - Quality Control: We did not do this well since our system is quite vulnerable and can be triggered by "malicious" users. For example, in the input field for users to fill in the total amount of money they have spent for certain events, we did not restrict the inputs as number only and we also did not manage the negative numbers for that field. Therefore, "malicious" users can attack us via this system's vulnerability. Also, event and payment are created by a single user which can allow malicious users game the system through thus one-step creation.
 - Supporting Social Interaction: our app has a reminding feature, which can help user to quickly remind who still owes money without feeling awkward, which they might feel when asking for money back in real life.
 - Privacy: This part in our system worked well since one user cannot know about the other users' participated events (except they participated in the same events), debts or payment history.

In the future, if we have the chance to improve our system, we will improve the following features:
 - Build a real database system and log in system for our app which allow users to create new account instead of using existed account that we offer from our local database.
 - BUild approvement system for users that whenever an user wants to create the new event, he/she will need the approvement of the participants in that events
 - Similarly, when users notify the others that they complete the payment, they need the approvement of the creditors in order to change the status of the this debt in the list of debts tab
 - Also, currently. we just support the task that will assume everyone in a single event will share the same amount of money. However, in real life, many situations are much more complicated which did not make them share the same amount. Therefore, we want to build a better system that can receive the amount of each person has to pay instead of just the total amount and then divide it equally
 
## Individual Reflection
### Viet Do
- Our team works out quite okay and there's no major problem within the team. The biggest problem, I guess, is time availability within the team. Our team had a pretty busy semester and everyone had almost no extra time to work on the project after the high-fi prototype, although we have discovered some issues that could have been resolved. Before that, we barely have enough time to work on different stages of the project. On the bright side, as the one who help out the team in using the framework, I would say that we are all fast-learner and get familiar with the framework that we used (Flutter) quite fast, therefore building the app is easier for all of us.
- Throughout the implementation process, I can see and adapt with different aspect of building a social app. However, although knowing about them, I have not pay enough attention to quality control, usage motivation, gamification, etc., results in the inefficiency in our final app: we do not have any highlight or special feature focusing on any of the properties listed above. Instead, we end up with a pretty common app that I would say is enough to support the task that initially we targeted, however is not fun/unique enough to satisfy some picky users. About the framework that we use, although I have already known it, I have the chance to practice working with it, and more importantly, working on an independent project using it, dividing the work, synchronizing with github. After the semester, now I'm more confident and can easily use the framework to build a new mobile application, either alone or with a group of friends.

### Viet Anh Le
This semester, after doing the team project I have concluded few things as my personal reflection as well as personal evaluation about myself and our team in this term project. First of all, our team members are quite fast to understand others' idea when we discuss about our project which help us save a lot of time for the discussion and explanation part. Also, each member supports the whole team quite well when we do the project's tasks together. However, we also faced some difficults. Since each of us has different backgrounds as well as skills in CS, when we do the High-fi prototype, sometimes our codes did not fit well with the others. Then, to overcome this, we decide to meet and discuss about the bug and fix it together. The lessons about teamwork that I have learnt during this project: always discussing with teammates, explaining both ideas and difficulties clearly to teammates and the most important one is listening to teammates. Beside the lessons about teamwork I have learnt, I also learnt useful lessons about programming skills. As the one in charge of designing and developing UI, I had the chance learn about new language and framework which is Flutter. This open source software development kit gives me such a nice experience during the first time building the UI since it is quite straight forward, easy to learn and so powerful with many libraries and tools that make the designing task much easier. Also, when building the UI, I also have to put myself into two positions which are user and programmer simultaneously in order to design the UI that is friendly with user as well as simplify the task for the backend developer (my teammates). Lastly, doing the project gave me the basic and fundamental ideas about doing project about social interaction. I, as the developer here have to consider many aspects from incentives for participation, quality control, to supporting social interaction which I and my teammate have carefully elaborate in the "Discussion" part.
### Van Hoang
After completing the project, there are some good and bad things that I have recognized about our team. At first, we divide the work among team members so that each person can contribute equally to the project. Each member did a very good job for their part, thus really improved the efficiency and quality of the project. Sometimes we had different opinions, but we always discussed together to make final decision.  There was just one thing that we need to improve, which is lack of discipline. We have been given a lot of time for the project, but it seemed that we did not use it properly. As a result, we had to do a large amount of tasks during two weeks before deadline.  In the future, I think our team need to have a better discipline to ensure everything would be on time.
There were also some challenges that I had to overcome when working in a team. Firstly, the programming language that our team used for implementing the project is completely new for me, and due to lack of knowledge, sometimes I faced some problems that I did not know how to solve. So I asked other team members and they actually helped me a lot in finding a solution for those problems. Through that, I can learn so many things and my coding skill also be improved significantly. Secondly, I sometimes found myself quite lazy and passive during team work. We used Kakao for communicating among team members, so normally I just waited for other team member to tell us what to do rather than actively participating with other group members. In the future team project, I think I should participate more actively and be more responsible for the team. 
Through the design project experience, I can learn that deploying a social computing system is not an easy task to do. At first, we wanted to add many features in our app, but when we actually implemented the project, we recognized that some tasks seemed to be too complicated, so we decided not to implement those tasks. Furthermore, our application is still not perfect and need to be improved in many aspects (quality control, incentives, etc.). However, working on a team project gave me precious experience about both doing a social inteaction project and cooperating with others.
### Dohyeong Kim
Initially, tasks are separated among team members so that each member contributes to the project. Each member has a very good job in his or her position, thus improving the efficiency and quality of the project. Sometimes we had different views, but we always discussed together and made the final decision.
As a marketter, I learned that the marketing of new product is a difficult task than I think before. And as a UI designer, I learned a new language and framework called Flutter. It is a software development kit that provides a great experience while writing UI. It is very intuitive, easy to learn, and powerful because it makes design work much easier with many libraries and tools. In addition, both user and programmer should be in two locations at the same time in order to design user-friendly UI when creating UI and to simplify work for backend developers (team members). Finally, the project provided us with a basic idea of how to conduct a project on social interaction.
The lack of training was only one thing we had to improve. I think we didn’t spend our time properly for our project. As a result, we had to do a lot of work for two weeks before the deadline. In the future, our team thinks we need to have better discipline to ensure that everything is done on time.
## Video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ip8Pt2HWw9Y
